---
layout: post
title: Learning R Versus Other Programming Languages
---

The only programming experience I have had is through the classes I have taken at NC State while working within this master’s program.  The first programming software I learned 
was SAS in the ST555 course.  Learning the SAS programming language was very difficult and frustrating for me.  The work I put in to passing the course that semester was the 
equivalent of a full-time job.  I would watch each lecture three times at least to begin to grasp the concepts covered in the lecture and would then spend countless frustrating
hours each week trying to complete the assignments.  There were days that the sun would rise and set and I never moved from my computer the entire day.  Trial and error would
eventually pay off and I would finally figure out the small detail I was missing, which was preventing my code from running properly.  Overall, I found SAS frustrating and 
confusing and I do not want to write code for a living.  So far, my thoughts on R are just as frustrating as working with SAS but in different ways.  With SAS, an entire course
was dedicated to learning that programming language and no other course I have taken has used any of the SAS programming I have learned.  With R, every other course I have taken
uses the R programming language but no one course has been a prerequisite for all other courses, teaching me the basics of this programming language.  I am learning R through 
immersion, and it is not any easier of a way to learn it than the way I learned SAS.  I do not like that R requires you to download certain packages to run specific functions.  
If you want to run a function, you must know the specific package the function is part of so you can download it and then open that package when it is needed.  That makes it
harder and more frustrating for new learners.  I do like the convenience of creating pdf files through R markdown, which provides a way to print code, text, graphs, and output
all in one document with the click of a button.  Overall, I do not like programming and did not know how much of this master’s program was dedicated to learning SAS and R.  I 
think this master’s program should be called “masters of data science” and not “masters of statistics”.
